Cape Town - With just over a week to the final matric exam, pupils have expressed relief and are upbeat about their future. Exams end on November 29 after a month of more than 50 sessions throughout the country.Groote Schuur High School pupils who spoke to Weekend Argus this week said they were hopeful about their results and were looking forward to pursuing their post-school plans.Autumn Jade Liedeman of Bonteheuwel said she was left with four more papers, business studies on Tuesday, history paper 2 on Thursday, English paper 3 on Friday and Afrikaans paper 3 on the following Monday. It has been stressful but bearable. I have support from my family and friends. At school we have been getting together before the exam and help each other, she said.Unlike pupils who will be registering at various academic institutions, Liedeman said she would be enrolling for a course on real estate at Pam Golding for a year from next year.Her schoolmate Kelci Africa of Kenilworth said she was looking forward to enrolling for a degree in brand management at Vega. The exams have been good. Fortunately, my timetable is spaced out so I had time to prepare. Another pupil, Kim Pikwa, said she found the exam not too bad . It felt familiar. The final exam is not too different from the other exams we have been writing, she said adding she was hopeful about her results.Pikwa said she had applied at various universities to study law or public relations.The National Senior Certificate exams have not been without controversy as leaking of papers was reported in some parts of the country. A case of theft was opened against a private school owner who allegedly leaked papers to pupils in Limpopo.In the Western Cape, the education department said it was testing a new electronic system at selected schools. If found to be effective, the new system would be rolled out to more schools next year.According to spokeswoman Jessica Shelver, the system includes a high-security container with an electronic lock that chief invigilators can only unlock at specific times in specified places using an electronic key and a code provided by the department just before the exam.[email&#160;protected]Weekend Argus