Cape Town - A place that has over centuries been the home of slaves brought to the Cape since around 1658 - and which bore a symbol of colonisation in its name - has now been reclaimed by its descendants in a renaming. The Bo-Kaap is known for its rich heritage that spans many generations, its colourful homes, eastern- inspired cuisine and its painful past which tore communities apart under the Group Areas Act. The oldest urban residential area, the boundaries of which have now been established, first held political exiles and convicts from east Africa and south-east Asia. In the 1950s people belonging to other religions and ethnicities were forced to leave when the area was declared exclusively for Cape Muslims. More than six decades later, residents of the community won the right to discard the names enforced by Dutch colonialists - Schotschekloof, Stadzicht and Schoone Kloof - and replace it with a name embodying diversity. The Bo-Kaap Civic and Ratepayers Association (BKCRA s) Mohammed Groenewald said that 200 years from now, future generations will be left with a legacy they could be proud of. The association initiated the process two years ago with a proposal submitted to the Western Cape Provincial Geographical Names Committee (WCPGNC) which was eventually adopted. Minister of Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa signed off on the adoption in September and by October, the name change to Bo-Kaap was gazetted. Nkosikhulule Nyembezi, of the WCPGNC, said that several meetings were held to accommodate the multiple layers of the process. From the time we received the application, it was very commendable in terms of how the community conducted the consultation processes. They did not only consult with NGOs but also those small groups of traders, women running the cr&egrave;ches in order to get their views. What was commendable about this processes is that it was very inclusive, he said. Tourism Minister Derek Hanekom said that Bo-Kaap told a very important story in terms of South African history and slavery. If you look at the history of our country, we all come from somewhere else. People who have lived here for the longest are the Khoisan people and there is a history that goes back tens of thousands of years. The rest of us came here in the last few centuries. The people that are least spoken about are people who suffered the most, who did not migrate to South Africa but who were wrenched from their own countries and came here as slaves. We often speak of the slaves that were taken out of Africa and taken to other parts of the world, but we don t sufficiently remember the people who came to South Africa as slaves. We forget the hardship that they went through as slaves, he said. Hanekom went on to say that the renaming was moving from a past that people could not change but remember, into a future where the descendants of the people who came to the Cape as slaves are free people. They are asserting their identity and deciding on their own destiny as part of a bigger country. The Bo- Kaap is far more than just a tourism site, it s becoming an iconic tourism site. It symbolises something quite special in the history of our country. This is where the original slaves came to more than 300 years ago.This is where they lived and this is where our families continue to live through all these years, he said. The Doekmal event organised by the local civic organisation included a walk along the new 4km boundary of Bo-Kaap - from Wale Street ending at the Boorhaanol Centre in Pentz Street. [email&#160;protected]Weekend Argus