Cape Town Police are investigating the murder of a Stellenbosch University student at a flat in Sea Point last week.Robyn Pearce, 20, from Durban, is believed to have be en visiting a friend on the corner of Beach and London roads when she was stabbed. Police spokesman FC van Wyk said no arrests had been made. Circumstances surrounding a fatal stabbing incident whereby the body of a 20-year-old female was found are under investigation. A murder case was opened for investigation, Van Wyk said.Stellenbosch University senior director of student affairs Birgit Schreiber said the university was shocked by the incident. Stellenbosch University has learnt with shock and sadness of the passing of a BA (Humanities) student, Ms Robyn Pearce, in Sea Point over the weekend. She was highly valued in the university s private ward student organisation and in the cluster groups. We share the most heartfelt condolences with the family during these most trying times. On Facebook, friends and relatives posted tributes, describing Pearce as a pleasant person who was friendly and kind.Alexis van Schalkwyk, who described herself as a friend, said: She was honestly one of the most kind-hearted, loving and special people. She was someone you would meet once and be impacted by. Van Schalkwyk said Pearce made an effort with everyone she knew or met. She was always smiling and was the absolute epitome of grace. Another tribute came from Bianca Hull, who said: Thoughts and prayers go out to the Pearce family. Your daughter was a beautiful and lovely person! May her soul rest in peace and that the Lord may cover you with the peace which passes all understanding! Politics tut (tutorial) will not be as productive! Robyn Pearce you will be a sweet memory! A resident at Beach Court, the luxury block where the incident took place, said there were several versions regarding the events that led to the murder. The residents said they would wait for the police investigation before drawing conclusions. [email&#160;protected]Weekend Argus