Cape Town - The sevens rugby circus rolled into town this weekend, bringing with it thousands of tourists who revelled at the action at the Cape Town Stadium. On Saturday, the city centre and the stadium precinct was awash with colour, fake Donald Trumps, faux superheroes, naked torsos and lots of gees. The local economy almost certainly got a massive shot in the arm as hundreds of tourists went sightseeing around town before making their way to the stadium.Adnaan Kemp, a vendor in the city for 15 years, said the tournament was a boon to his business.He said this year s event, within the first few hours of trade, had made him more money than the 2015 event had. He was now selling most of the participating nations jerseys, except for the French team as his supplier didn t have any. France was not short of support, though, as Laurence and Jean Paul Lakafia, parents of star winger, Pierre Gilles, said their son had pleaded with them to travel to Cape Town. We had to come, he begged us to come.&quot;And we agree Cape Town is beautiful. Tuculet Segundo, Argentina centre, watching on the sidelines because of an ankle injury, agreed, describing the city as a beauty . Hopefully we get a chance to see more on Monday before we fly home, he said. Uganda coach Tolbert Onyango is enjoying the Cape weather and the locals. The people are very friendly. One fan drew the ire of security guards as his outfit was a tad too political for their liking.Blitzboks fan David Evans was refused entrance for wearing a bucket emblazoned with pictures of President Jacob Zuma and US president-elect, Donald Trump, on his head. He laughed the incident off, saying: Freedom of speech . Evans said he would go hide his headgear and return to catch the action. Shane Hansen of Ravensmead and Piet Engelbrecht of Kuils River, said next year the city should organise buses from the northern suburbs. It s my first-time at the stadium, but getting here has been a struggle, said Hansen. Engelbrecht said they had walked from the station to the stadium. Paarl residents Pierre Botha, Ruan Olivier and Carel Augustyn were in fine voice with their friends Karel Taljaard and Conrad Basson. All clad in Springbok colours, they said they were there to support the African teams.Weekend Argus