Cape Town - Shocking details of how Fadwaan Fats Murphy conducted his alleged drug syndicate business on the Cape Flats - accumulating an excess of R53.5 million - has been revealed in documents motivating the courts to confiscate his alleged ill-gotten gains. The Asset Forfeiture Unit (AFU), stormed properties in Lentegeur in Mitchells Plain, Athlone, Grassy Park and Worcester early on Friday morning to enact a restraint order in terms of the Prevention of Organised Crime Act (Poca).The AFU attached 24 vehicles owned by the defendants as well as property and millions of rands believed to be the profit of Murphy s drug empire. Murphy came under the spotlight in the past when he revealed he owned both male and female identity books, although he prefered to live as a male. Murphy, his ex-wife Shafieka, his sister Glenda Bird, Dominique Davidson, Leon Paulsen and Ulterior Trading Solutions are facing charges of racketeering, dealing in drugs and money laundering. Ulterior is believed to be run by Murphy and used to make payments to his alleged drug handlers. The matter is pending trial in the Khayelitsha Regional Court. Police raided a property in Grassy Park owned by Davison on September 18 last year on information that firearms were being stored there. Instead what police found was allegedly a drug warehouse where tik and heroin were being packed and sealed for distribution. Investigators arrested Shafieka and two self-confessed drug packers during the raid. Charges against the drug packers were dropped when they provided police with statements. A total of R1.1 million, plastic wrap, 7985 packets of tik, tik lollys, sealing machines and 10400 units of heroin were confiscated. AFU investigator Ricardo Rhoda said in an affidavit that one of the woman told him she had begun working for Murphy two years ago and would be brought to his sister s house for work . The two women would be tasked with cutting, weighing, packing and sealing tik in exchange for R200 a day. Each packet of tik had to weigh 1kg. They packed 12kg a week. The pair were also required to work from the Grassy Park home police raided. Murphy would pay his staff through his business - Ulterior Trading Solutions, said Rhoda. Murphy s network allegedly used different homes for packaging and distribution of drugs, and money storage, before his employers would deliver the products to different drug dealers to be sold. Murphy s ex-wife, Shafieka, allegedly sold drugs in Worcester, where she lives with her new husband. According to Rhoda, in Murphy s employ was a man known only as Graham, who acted as a tester. His job description including smoking tik to ascertain its quality. Paulsen s connection to the network was described as being one of the money houses Murphy used. Investigators found a safe holding more than R338000 when they raided his home. Different roleplayers allegedly dropped money off hourly. The funds were collected at the end of each week. This cash was packed in black sports bags and allegedly delivered to Murphy s home. Weekend Argus