Cape Town - The carnival is an expression of our identity. It s where people are free to be whoever they are. Transgender, homosexual people who cannot live freely are able to express their identity through the carnival, said Kaapse Klopse Karnival Association (KKKA) spokesman Muneeb Gambeno. With its origins in the days of slavery, when slaves were given one day off to celebrate the new year by dressing up, painting their faces and singing on the streets, the carnival has become a significant feature of the city s events calendar. But fears of the event being in jeopardy surfaced in recent weeks when the Cape Town Minstrels Carnival Association (CTMCA), which had previously hosted the event and the City, were embroiled in legal battles over compliance and meeting organising requirements. But it is all systems go for the Tweede Nuwe Jaar minstrel march scheduled for Monday after weeks of legal battles and infighting over hosting rights. On Wednesday the permit was granted to the KKKA with R1.8 million in funding - irking the previous hosts, which subsequently withdrew their 36 troupes from participating.Mayoral committee member for Tourism, Events and Economic Development, Eddie Andrews disputed claims the City was dividing the minstrel associations.Asked how the decision to issue the hosting permit was made, Andrews said: The Cape Town Minstrel Carnival Association did not comply with the requirements stipulated in the City s Events By-law and the City s events Amendment By-law. The Events Permit Office was therefore not able to issue them with a permit for the event. The Kaapse Klopse Karnival Association met the requirements and was issued with a permit. Among the requirements the CTMCA failed to meet were providing proof of public liability insurance, medical planning, transport and traffic management planning, waste management and approval for road closures, Andrews said.He added the date for hosting the event proposed was also not feasible. The City had also indicated that the most suitable date for the march was January 2 in terms of minimising disruption to business days and the competing demands during the festive season. However, the group preferred January 3 and then later January 7 and would not consider the City s proposed date. However, CTMCA chief executive Kevin Momberg denied the City s claims of non-compliance. We have been hosting this event for years, we have met the requirements. The City now just does not want us to host. According to Momberg, the CTMCA was treated unfairly and penalised for typing errors and small mistakes in their application. The City is punishing us for attending an ANC event last January. Gambeno added the withdrawal was a matter of sour grapes . This is supposed to be an inclusive event and every troupe is welcome. Withdrawing drives a wedge between the troupes. Gambeno said his association extended an invitation to all troupes to join. There is no way that such an occasion can be dictated to by individuals. This is bigger than any of us. Culture should dictate not individuals. Gambeno said the minstrel carnival was a culmination of a year s worth of preparatory work, including designing and sewing outfits, sourcing musical instruments and practising for the march. Withdrawing from the event is letting all that work go down the drain. It is a huge blow to the people who have worked hard for months. The march is also about accessing parts of the city that are ordinarily not accessible to people from the Cape Flats. Its a celebration of who we are. 