The Constitutional Court set a precedent for the largely marginalised lesbian, gay, bisexual, transexual and and intersex community in a ruling on Wednesday. The decision came when a gay man, whose long-time partner died in February last year, won a Pretoria High Court case declaring him the sole benefactor of the estate. The dead man s brother, Rasmus Laubscher, then took the matter to the Constitutional Court. which had to decide whether he or life partner Eric Duplan was entitled to inherit. Duplan and his life-partner, Cornelius Daniel Laubscher, had been together for 13 years. The pair had never married, had never had their relationship solemnised by a priest and had not been registered in terms of the Civil Unions Act. Cornelius Laubscher had no descendants recognised by a court of law. His parents had died years before and his brother was declared the executor of his estate. By law, when a person dies and does not leave behind a valid will, the Intestate Succession Act will take effect. It divides the deceased s estate between family members and spouses. In an argument Duplan made to the Constitutional Court, he said that he relied on a similar case, Gory v Kolver, in which the court found that the definition of the word spouse includes same-sex life partnerships. At the time the Gory v Kolver case was heard, the Civil Union Act has not been enacted. The Court concluded that Duplan was to be the sole intestate heir. The Triangle project s Matthew Clayton said that although the organisation had not been involved in the case, they were pleased about the move that looked to give same-sex couples complete recognition of the law. Far too many people in long term same-sex relationships have had to face the agony of a legal system which did not fully recognise them, on top of the loss they have suffered. This is a small move that may not benefit the majority of LGBTI people, but it is our hope that each piece of reform like this goes some way to strengthen our country s stated goals of equality and human dignity, he said. Weekend Argus