WITH A paintbrush poised in her mouth and an easel settled on the hot concrete parking lot overlooking Camps Bay, the one-of-a-kind painting pig steadied herself to create yet another abstract expressionist masterpiece.Blue streaks spattered everywhere as Pigcasso thrust her head at the canvas, covering the tips of her ears and snout with paint. She would grab the paintbrush from her owner, Joanne Lefson, brush a few strokes on to the white canvas and then abruptly drop the paintbrush to nibble on a mix of peaches and caramel popcorn. Lefson, an animal activist and founder of Farm Sanctuary SA, saved the pig from a slaughterhouse in May.For the past four months, Lefson has trained the rescue pig to paint. Pigcasso has produced over a dozen paintings and will have her first exhibition next year.The 450kg pig first learnt football before picking up a paintbrush and discovering her passion for painting. She favours scenic settings for artistic inspiration. Pigcasso has painted various sites in Cape Town including Table Mountain and the incomplete bridge on Helen Suzman Boulevard.Loaded with a plethora of piggy treats, Lefson taught Pigcasso to paint using positive reinforcement through clicker training, a technique often used to train dogs.While painting gives Pigcasso a good excuse to pig out on strawberries and guavas between brushstrokes, the hobby is not just for pleasure, but to raise awareness of the poor living conditions of industrialised factory farms. The purpose of Pigcasso painting is to show her as a talented, unique individual who loves to paint and loves her life and loves to live, said Lefson. She reminds consumers to think a little bit differently, to eat a little bit differently and to make kinder, more compassionate choices. Breeding sows are confined in narrow cages for life, while their offspring are raised for pork and kept in filthy overcrowded conditions, said Lefson. No straw. No outdoors. No life. Lefson s strong love and dedication for animals inspired her to open the Franschhoek sanctuary at the beginning of October on World Farm Animals Day. It is the only officially registered sanctuary in Africa for rescued farm animals.Over the years, Lefson has adopted many rescued animals, stopped eating meat for the last 17 years and even married her dog Oscar who travelled the globe with her at a wedding chapel in Las Vegas. The dog was accidentally run over by Lefson in 2013 and could not be saved.According to Farm Sanctuary SA s site, pigs, cows, sheep and chickens are common farm animals subjected to abuse.A couple of maltreatment examples noted are tail docking of lambs, a process of shortening the tail with a knife or tying a rubber band around it until it falls off, and artificial impregnation of cows to produce milk.Money raised through purchase of Pigcasso s art always marked with a snout signature go to supporting Farm Sanctuary SA s mission to inform and inspire positive change in the way society views and treats farm animals .Lefson said consumers can help the cause by understanding where their meat products come from and refusing to support industries that mistreat animals.In addition to Pigcasso, the sanctuary is a refuge for Baloo, a rock 'n' roll loving cow who was rescued from an informal settlement along the N2, and two other pigs, another cow and many chickens. Pigcasso s first exhibition will be in February or March in Cape Town. All proceeds go to Farm Sanctuary SA.