Cape Town As Cape Town ushers in 2017, authorities warn of zero tolerance for drunken drivers and revellers.While the road death toll mounts, hundreds of motorists have been arrested and more than double the amount of alcohol has been confiscated compared with the same period last year. Road and Transport Minister Dipuo Peters office has recorded 800 deaths, nationally, since the beginning of the month a 17percent increase in road crashes compared with last year.The Department of Transport and Public Works is urging motorists to be responsible and to drive sober. Pedestrians have also been reminded to heed the call as police, law enforcement and traffic officers have set up roadblocks across the country.Road Traffic Management Corporation spokesman Simon Zwane said traffic officers would be visible on the roads in an attempt to stem the number of crashes.Zwane said 7000 motorists have been arrested at roadblocks across the country since the beginning of the month. The operations are aimed at reducing road deaths, but the number increases daily. We will continue with the operations to save lives. Officers have recovered illegal firearms, drugs and arrested motorists driving without a licence. The visibility of the traffic officers on the road makes a difference. We are ready to be where we are needed to save lives. Western Cape Provincial traffic chief Kenny Africa said the death toll on roads in the province had increased to 130 since the beginning of the month and 54 of the victims were pedestrians.Western Cape provincial spokesman for the Department of Transport and Public Works Byron le Hoe said 181 people were arrested for drunken-driving.The arrests were recorded in Caledon, Somerset West, Mossel Bay and George. City mayoral committee member for safety and security JP Smith said: Road and beach safety are two priorities. We are also working closely with the police to prevent crime and provide support when required. City law enforcement is set to secure beaches to prevent unruly behaviour and curb the consumption of alcohol. Beach goers have been warned that cooler boxes containing liquor will be confiscated by police, who will conduct regular patrols.This clampdown comes after 20407 bottles of liquor were confiscated since the beginning of the month.During the same period last year, city police confiscated 9713 bottles of liquor.Beach goers found in possession of alcohol will be fined R500 and their liquor confiscated, Smith warned. He warned that law enforcement would work tirelessly to prevent lawlessness at beaches. Beach goers are also being urged to be wary of sharks, pay attention to shark signage and to always obey officials and shark spotters. Shark Spotters research manager Alison Kock urged people to download the agency s app, which provides updates on shark sightings and water temperature. There were two shark sightings in Muizenberg this week, while another shark was spotted in the waters near Clovelly and Fish Hoek beaches.Mayco member for energy, environment and spatial planning Johan van der Merwe said they would enhance safety, especially during the traditionally busy beach days, New Year s Day and Tweede Nuwejaar.He said the shark monitoring programme covers eight Cape Town beaches.Back on land, for Saturday night, the city will make available the same designated fireworks sites that were used for Guy Fawkes:* Tourism Centre, Athens Road, Table View beachfront* Wesfleur sports field, Reygersdal Drive, Atlantis* Bishop Lavis sports field, Lavis Drive, Bishop Lavis* Metropolitan sports grounds, Melkhout Street, Bonteheuwel* Delft Central sports grounds, Main Road, Delft* Swartklip sports complex, Swartklip Road, Mitchells Plain* Athlone Stadium parking area (eastern side), Klipfontein Road, Athlone* Maiden s Cove, second parking area, Victoria Road, Camps Bay* Strandfontein Pavilion, Strandfontein* Sarepta sports complex, Sarepta* Blue Downs sports field, Blue Downs* Macassar Beach parking area, Macassar Road, MacassarAll designated fireworks areas will be patrolled by the City Law Enforcement and metro police as well as a fire inspector.Smith said safety for tonight has been prioritised. Anyone under the age of 16 is not permitted to discharge fireworks and 12.30pm is the cut-off time.Smith estimated 250000 people visited the beaches over the Christmas long weekend, with 100000 on the Day of Goodwill. Smith said the City was expecting another bumper weekend on the beaches. There have been at least five reported drownings since the beginning of the month.Two children drowned at Muizenberg beach day afternoon, said the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI).NSRI spokesman Craig Lambinon confirmed the drownings. Provincial police spokesman Captain FC van Wyk said he did not have information about the drownings at the time of going to print. Smith said due to the Identikidz programme, which tagged 63000 children, 77 children have been reunited with their families.Weekend Argus