Christmas time is family time. It is also a time when families flock to markets to buy unique gifts and goods. Markets just seem to have an alternative presence about them. What better way to get an experience of that than with your loved ones. The Lourensford Christmas MarketThe Lourensford wine estate in Somerset West will provide just the perfect scene for you and your loved ones.The wine estate opened a Christmas market for this weekend. Today, the market is open from10am to 4pm.The market offers an array of visual artwork, top live music entertainers and a scenic view of its estate gardens. There will also be a children s entertainment area, which includes jumping castles. The available gourmet food should keep families happy.Everyone can chill in the main market seating area or bring picnic blankets for their spots on the lawns. Call 0722841654 or email [email&#160;protected] for information.Gabrielskloof s Favourite ThingsA popular shop n social affair, the Gabrielkloof s Favourite Things market presents an opportunity for indie craft-makers, designers, local food and wine. The unique fair will turn the scenic courtyard into a creative hub.You can also shop for luxurious items made of alpaca wool, fine local designer bling and imported clothes. All of this is complemented by magical music, courtesy of a French accordion, which will be playing in the background. Foodies will get to enjoy oysters and bubbly, wine and cheese; fresh bakes and burgers; and chocolate. Usually a two-day shindig, the market has been extended to a three-day affair December 16, 17, 18 and, for the first time, it will also take place on a Sunday.The market will be open from 10am to 5pm today. Entrance is free.Visitors at the Gabrielskloof Favourite Things Market are encouraged to be responsible. A shuttle service is available at a special rate from Hermanus costing R50 per person. For transport bookings and more information, contact Andre at [email&#160;protected] or Shirley at [email&#160;protected]Darling BrewThe Darling Brew craft beer microbrewery has an inaugural Christmas market, which will include food stalls, craft and gift stalls and kiddies entertainment todayfrom 10am until 5pm. Entrance is free. Darling Brew is on 48 Caledon Street, Darling. Call 021 286 1099 or email [email&#160;protected] for more information.Deer LittleParents can pick up a toy or two at the Deer Little Market on December 18 from 9am to 2pm at 2 Deerpark Drive, Vredehoek. Email [email&#160;protected] for details.Country CraftBilled as the only only market of its kind in Somerset West, the well-established Country Craft only displays hand-made items by crafters. The organisers have promised that items would not be duplicated and that shoppers would go home with unique items.Also on offer will be delicious food. The market will be open tomorrow, December 12, 16 and 17. Visit https://www.facebook.com/CuntryCraftMarket/ for updates and information.