If you were wondering whether the toy drone you purchased for your 10-year-old may fall foul of the Civil Aviation Authority s (CAA) rules, rest assured.Drones, or remotely piloted aircraft systems (RPAS) as they are technically known, have in recent months come under the scrutiny of the CAA, whose job it is to oversee civil aviation. In October, Dubai International Airport had to close down its airspace for about one and a half hours after a drone flew too near the airport. The airport spokesperson said hobby drones caused a problem as they flew in close proximity to the airport.Kabelo Ledwaba, spokesman for the CAA, said in July last year, the CAA introduced comprehensive regulations aimed at the administration of drones, making South Africa one of the first countries to address this. Given the low cost and easy availability of remotely piloted aircraft systems, errant individuals may acquire and utilise these aircraft in a manner that is unacceptable and contravenes civil aviation regulations and other laws enforceable by other state entities, he said.The CAA did not explain what differentiates a toy drone from one that could be a hazard. Ledwaba said no drone was allowed to be operated, unless it was registered with the CAA and the owner issued with a letter of approval. In addition, retailers need to note that no drone shall be sold unless the seller has notified the buyer of the operational requirements as imposed by the CAA, he said, adding the pilot of the drone required a valid remote pilot licence. The rules do not apply to toy aircraft.Further regulations prohibit the flying of a drone directly overhead any person or group of people, or within a lateral distance of 50m from any person, structure or building, not exceeding 400 ft above the earth s surface; nor within a radius of 10km from an aerodrome; nor adjacent to or above a nuclear power plant, prison, police station, crime scene, court of law, national key point or strategic installation. A drone may not be flown into any property without the permission of the property owner, he said.People should report any misuse of a drone. Failure to adhere to civil aviation regulations could result in a 10-year prison sentence or a fine of R50 000, or both. Individuals who use drones in an irresponsible manner may also face legal liability for breaking laws pertaining to privacy. 