Cape Town - Campaigners against domestic violence have urged the government to create a specific category of crime stats reporting so the truth of how widespread the scourge is can emerge and proper resources can be allocated to tackle the growing problem. Mitchells Plain Community Policing Forum chairman Abie Isaacs said the problem had reached crisis levels, with most of the assaults reported in Mitchells Plain having a domestic violence link. He said part of the problem was that resources allocated to combating certain crimes were based on a skewed analysis of the situation. If you really study the situation you will see it is a myth that gang violence, which is a priority, is the greater problem, because analysis of monthly crime reports will reveal that most violent crimes reported related to incidents in people s homes, he said.Isaacs said records of CPF observation visits show links between drug abuse and domestic violencein which addicts' families were the first victims. In many cases you will find the substance abuser attacked their own family in order to get the R50 or other money to sustain their habit, he said. However, despite domestic violence being a huge problem in Cape Town townships, there is no specific category for it in the crime stats, even though it has been identified as a priority crime.Isaacs said in many homes with big families young children witnessed domestic violence. While in most cases it was the same perpetrator, many victims would drop the case and then suffer the same fate. He said courts needed to play their role.Khayelitsha Police Forum chairwoman Nomawethu Mosana said domestic violence was one of the township s biggest crimes. She said it usually happened between married couples or partners but there were cases of children or grandchildren abusing their parents or grandparents. The biggest challenge we are faced with is people opening a case today and tomorrow they come and drop it because they have sorted things out, said Mosana. Sometimes there had been intimidation, she said. Mosana said most of the time alcohol played a role in the violence.Most reports were from women victims and while there were some men, most of them don t report incidents because they fear being embarrassed. Mosana said the CPF planned an awareness campaign around the issue.Dorothea Gertse of the Saartjie Baartman Centre for Women and Children said they had five cases from Khayelitsha and 68 from Mitchell s Plain during the past financial year. We are well aware females can also be perpetrators, however reports show that 60 percent of perpetrators are either husbands or boyfriends. We also have a high rate of child abuse cases: children being directly abused or neglected by either parents or both and children witnessing the abuse of one parent by the other. She said there were factors that contributed to domestic violence such as substance abuse, unemployment, the perpetrator having been abused as a child and an imbalance in financial status between the abuser and the victim. There are still not enough women coming forward and a lot of cases are never reported and this is due to the low conviction rate of perpetrators in South Africa. Currently only 3 percent of perpetrators in South Africa get convicted. Social Development MEC Bertie Fritz s spokesman, Sihle Ngobese, said 4 047 gender-based violence victims from Mitchell s Plain and 2 705 form Khayelitsha were assisted by NGOs the department had funded between April, 1, 2015 and July, 31, 2016.Weekend Argus